# Computer Graphics Exam Questions

## First set

1. [What is a point and a vector? What operations can be performed on points and vectors?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_1-point-and-vector-definitions-and-operations)
2. [What does a right-handed and a left-handed coordinate system look like in 3D space?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_2-right-handed-and-left-handed-coordinate-systems)
3. [Given a left-handed coordinate system with base vectors i, j, k. Create a right-handed system from the same origin using the vectors i, j, -k (draw it)! What will be the coordinates of a point identified by $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \\ z \end{bmatrix}$ in the left-handed system in the right-handed system?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_3-left-handed-to-right-handed-coordinate-transformation)
4. [What is the definition of a 2D polar coordinate system? How can you calculate the polar coordinates of a point given in a Cartesian coordinate system? How can you calculate the Cartesian coordinates $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix}$ of a point given in polar coordinates?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_4-2d-polar-coordinate-system-definition-and-conversions)
5. [What are the polar coordinates $(r, \phi)$ of the following points given in Cartesian coordinates? Remember the notable angles and trigonometric functions in right-angled triangles defined by the coordinates! $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} -3 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ -4 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} -2 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} -3 \\ -3 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 4 \\ -4 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ \sqrt{3} \end{bmatrix}$](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_5-cartesian-to-polar-coordinate-examples)
6. [What are the Cartesian coordinates $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix}$ of the following points given in polar coordinates $(r, \phi)$? $(r,\phi)=(1,0),(2,\frac{\pi}{2}),(3,\pi),(4,\frac{3\pi}{2}),(\sqrt{2},\frac{\pi}{4}),(\sqrt{8},\frac{3\pi}{4}),(\sqrt{18},\frac{5\pi}{4}),(\sqrt{32},\frac{7\pi}{4}),(2,\frac{\pi}{3})$](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_6-polar-to-cartesian-coordinate-examples)
7. [What is the definition of a spherical/3D polar coordinate system? How can you calculate the spherical coordinates of a point given in a Cartesian coordinate system? How can you calculate the Cartesian coordinates of a point given in 3D polar coordinates?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_7-3d-spherical-coordinate-system-definition-and-conversions)
8. [What are the spherical coordinates $(r, \phi, \theta)$ of the following points given in Cartesian coordinates $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \\ z \end{bmatrix}$? $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \\ z \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 1 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_8-cartesian-to-spherical-coordinate-examples)
9. [What are the Cartesian coordinates $\begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \\ z \end{bmatrix}$ of the following points given in spherical coordinates $(r, \phi, \theta)$? $(r,\phi,\theta)=(1,0,0),(1,\pi,0),(1,0,\pi),(1,0,\frac{\pi}{2}),(1,\frac{\pi}{2},\frac{\pi}{2}),(1,0,\frac{3\pi}{4}),(2,\frac{\pi}{2},\frac{3\pi}{4})$](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_9-spherical-to-cartesian-coordinate-examples)
10. [How many points do we need to fix in the plane if we want to describe the entire Euclidean plane (all its points) using barycentric coordinates? What does the phrase \"not lying in an n-1 dimensional subspace\" mean in this case, what geometric constraint does it impose on the fixed points?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_10-barycentric-coordinates-in-2d-number-of-points)
11. [How many points do we need to fix in the plane if we want to describe the entire Euclidean space (all its points) using barycentric coordinates? What does the phrase \"not lying in an n-1 dimensional subspace\" mean in this case, what geometric constraint does it impose on the fixed points?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_11-barycentric-coordinates-in-3d-number-of-points)
12. [Let $a = (-1, 1)$, $b = (2, 4)$, $c = (5, -2)$ be points in the plane. What will be the Cartesian coordinates of the plane points defined by the following barycentric coordinates with respect to points a, b, c? (1, 0, 0), (0, 1, 0), (0, 0, 1), (-1, 1, 1), (1, -1, 1), (1, 1, -1), ($\frac{1}{3}, \frac{1}{3}, \frac{1}{3}$), ($-\frac{1}{4}, \frac{1}{2}, \frac{3}{4}$)](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_12-barycentric-to-cartesian-coordinate-conversion-example)
13. [What will be the barycentric coordinates of the following points with respect to the points $a = (0, 0)$, $b = (4, 0)$, $c = (2, 4)$? (0, 0), (4, 0), (2, 4), (2, 2), (0, 4), (8, 0), (2, -4), (-2, -2)](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_13-cartesian-to-barycentric-coordinate-conversion-example)
14. [How did we extend the Euclidean plane and space? What are the definitions of the projective closures of $\mathbb{E}^2$ and $\mathbb{E}^3$?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_14-euclidean-plane-and-space-extension-projective-closures)
15. [How did we assign homogeneous coordinates to the points and vectors of the Euclidean space? What does a triple [quadruple] of projective plane [space] coordinates represent in Euclidean space (depending on the values)?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_15-homogeneous-coordinates-assignment-and-representation)
16. [What will be the homogeneous coordinates of the points $\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 2 \\ 3 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 4 \\ -2 \\ -5 \end{bmatrix}$? What will be the homogeneous coordinates of the vectors $\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 2 \\ 3 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 4 \\ -2 \\ -5 \end{bmatrix}$?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_16-homogeneous-coordinates-of-points-and-vectors)
17. [What are the homogeneous coordinate forms of the origin, the x-axis, the y-axis, and the z-axis?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_17-homogeneous-coordinates-of-origin-and-axes)
18. [What will be the elements given with the following homogeneous coordinates in Euclidean space? What will their coordinates be? $\begin{bmatrix} 6 \\ 15 \\ 9 \\ 3 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 4 \\ 6 \\ 8 \\ -2 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 5 \\ 4 \\ 2 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 5 \\ 4 \\ 2 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_18-homogeneous-coordinates-to-euclidean-space-elements)
19. [What ways of defining a line in a plane do you know?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_19-ways-of-defining-a-line-in-a-plane)
20. [A line is given in the plane by its point $p = \begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 3 \end{bmatrix}$ and its normal vector $n = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 1 \end{bmatrix}$. What will be a homogeneous implicit equation of the line in the plane? What will be the Hesse normal form of the equation?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_20-homogeneous-and-hesse-normal-form-of-a-line)
21. [What ways of defining a line in space do you know?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_21-ways-of-defining-a-line-in-space)
22. [What ways of defining a plane in space do you know?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_22-ways-of-defining-a-plane-in-space)
23. [Let a plane be given by its points $\begin{bmatrix} 3 \\ 3 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 6 \\ 4 \\ 6 \end{bmatrix}, \begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 9 \\ 5 \end{bmatrix}$. What will be a parametric equation of the plane with spanning vectors?](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_23-parametric-equation-of-a-plane)
24. [Given the equation of a line in the plane. What is a normal vector of the line? Give one point of the line!](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_24-normal-vector-and-point-of-a-line)
25. [Given the equation of a plane in space. What is a normal vector of the plane? Give one point of the plane!](/materials/computer-graphics/first-set#_25-normal-vector-and-point-of-a-plane)
